Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[people chattering]
[woman on recording]   Members of
the Elizabeth Company.
this is your beginners call.
You'll begin this call.
Your call. please.
Joe Ayew. Catherine Hampton.
Peter Marius and Jane Pipe.
Summon please. lighting.
sound. stage management.
flies. costume.
weights and stage crew.
Your beginners call. thank you.
[Princess Anne]
In the White Drawing Room.
- I have moved the furniture.
- Yes.
And I. um. have lit the fire
so that it looks quite
sort of friendly like.
[instruments tuning]
- Do you think they're ready?
- Yes. ma'am. they are indeed.
[dramatic fanfare playing]
[upbeat music playing]
[crowd cheering]
Let me entertain you
Let me
Enter...
...tain you
Let me
Enter...
...tain you
Yeah. yeah
Yeah
[crowd cheering]
[dramatic music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
- And a different
sort of camera.
- Electronic camera.
And. uh. that's the teleprompter
which you will have...
[mutters]
- Is that far enough in for you?
- No.
- [man] No?
- Because that's
right in the way.
- [man indistinct]
- Oh. I see what you mean.
[all laughing]
- It's for the radio version...
- For the radio. I see.
- ...and a run-through
-of the words.
- Mm-hm.
Clothes wise. does it look
alright with the background?
[man] Yes. it does.
I mean. jolly lucky.
I'd be awful if you'd said no
because I'd have to
find something else.
[woman]
Yes. it's alright for this.
[indistinct chatter]
[man]
Whenever you're ready. ma'am.
Red and green should never
be seen. but never mind.
Over the years. I have dwelt
on the happier side of life
in my Christmas Broadcasts.
We need reminding of it.
particularly at Christmas time.
This year.
there have been. I hope.
times of happiness
and good cheer for most of us.
My family. for instance.
has been celebrating
my youngest grandchild's
christening.
[male voice]
...old documentaries
about the Queen
and the new documentaries.
her accent has changed.
She's more. you know...
Before it was. like.
"Oh. la-la-la."
but these days
it's more like. "Ha-ha-ha-ha."
So it's more like a street
language. as if she's rapping.
Ladies and gentlemen...
I want to tell you all
throughout the ages...
and in grateful memory...
for our enjoyment...
it will not be easy...
[dialogue overlapping
indistinct]
But it is a fragile institution.
[dialogue overlapping
indistinct]
...by merely dialing
the right number
up to a distance
of some 300 miles.
[Lord Altrincham]
I feel that her
own natural self
is not allowed to come through
And if she herself were
allowed to speak.
the effect would be wonderful.
Do you expect the Queen
to have qualities of a wit?
You would like her
to be a better orator?
You would like her to be
a TV personality.
in addition to being
a diligent. dutiful
and devoted monarch
and a mother?
[Robin Day]
What I was suggesting is.
is that spontaneity
should be the key note.
even if they're prepared
from seeming to be the sort
of speech that she would make.
That will teach you
to insult the Queen.
[Robin]
...to terminate the interview.
I'm obliged to you
for answering my questions.
Next week. at this time.
there will be another
edition of   Impact.
Goodnight.
[narrator]
When speaking to the Queen
your first introduction should
be addressed as "Your Majesty".
From then on you should
address her as "ma'am".
- Ma'am.
- Yeah.
Your Majesty.
- Ma'am.
- Ma'am. right.
To go down on the stool.
very simple.
The conversation.
you'll know it's come to an end.
handshake...
Put your left foot
at the left side. reverse back.
And bend the right knee.
And if the Ambassador
and the High Commissioners
can be on my right.
their spouse is on their right.
Grasp the handle
with your right hand.
If the President is on my right.
then you'll walk in
two paces or so and stop.
When the doors open. and you're
first there. little neck bow
or a little curtsey
from the ladies.
if you feel that appropriate.
Right. I want your heels
on the edge of the curb.
Come forward.
Get forward so your heels
are on the edge of the curb!
To. uh. make sure that
the seating provides
the best possible mix
we color code the different
sort of people. uh.
categories of people.
At what point will we
hand over the gifts?
There's no handing
over of gifts.
It's simply a viewing.
They're really just on display.
These'll arrive in advance
of the--
- of the. of the visit.
I would suggest.
- Yes.
Are laid out on a table.
And it's simply a walk past.
- There's no actual giving.
- [man] Oh. I see.
She says nothing.
So. once you have received
the accolade. stand up.
and come round to the left-hand
side of the stool.
[Billy Turnbull] This lady
acts as the Queen's stand-in
at rehearsals for major events.
You've done Windsor.
you've done the Cenotaph.
[woman]
State opening of Parliament.
VJ Day.
That was the best one
because I rode in her carriage
around Trafalgar Square
on a lovely sunny afternoon.
Everybody was waving at me.
It's very hard to smile
for a long time. too.
It's quite difficult.
- There you are.
- [people laughing]
[woman] Bless.
You did this last year.
didn't you?
No. I haven't done it
for about--
- I was Queen last year.
- Deborah last year.
- [man] You did it last year?
- I did.
Duke of Kent.
Prince of Wales.
The Duke of Gloucester
in the middle.
Right. gentlemen. the Queen
is coming down the stairs.
Good afternoon. Your Majesty.
Commander Henry Duffy.
Captain of   HMS Liverpool.
Very nice to meet you.
Commander. Absolutely delighted.
[Henry]
Admiral. you need to chit-chat
with the Queen here. now.
- Sorry?
- You're gonna
have to talk to the Queen.
- Small talk.
I think it would probably
focus--
[woman] Talk about her dogs.
How are her dogs?
- No.
Louise. stop getting surreal.
- Oh. sorry.
[indistinct chattering]
[ "Norwegian Wood
(This Bird Has Flown)
by The Beatles playing]
I once had a girl
Or should I say
she once had me
She showed me her room
Isn't it good
Norwegian wood?
[man] Basically a year's
worth of insignia.
From terribly expensive stuff.
which is used very rarely.
to things like MBEs and OBEs.
which we probably get through
a couple of thousand a year.
There you go.
John Winston Lennon.
He came to an investiture
at Buckingham Palace
on the 26th of October. 1965.
And on the 26th of November.
1969. he returned it to us...
for various reasons.
And then she said
it's time for bed
[Sir Lenny Henry]
The Queen was very much part of
our lives as we were growing up.
My mum liked the Queen.
You know. there was that sense
of the Commonwealth
and the mother country.
And she came from Jamaica
in the 50s.
She literally had this idea
that the Queen had invited her
to come to Britain to work.
[narrator]   Now the end
of their journey is near.
What will they find in the land
they regard as an El Dorado?
[reporter]
Well. what do you
consider are the dangers
of an increasing
colored population?
[man] There are many immediate
evils of the colored invasion.
but in our opinion.
the most important
is the long-term one
of mass inter-breeding.
[Lenny]
When I did the Royal Variety
the first time.
and my mum being there
on the same tier
at the London Palladium
waving at her constantly.
"Hello. that's my son."
And my mum's here tonight.
[interviewer]
Did the Queen wave back?
I think... [laughing]
I think she
might have called security.
- [horn blowing]
- [crowd cheering]
[Elizabeth] Coming up the river
to the pool of London...
seeing Tower Bridge opening.
And we had the Prime Minister.
Sir Winston Churchill. with us.
And. uh. one saw this dirty
commercial river as one came up.
and he was describing it
as the silver thread
which runs through
the history of Britain.
He saw things in a very romantic
and glittering way.
So. perhaps one was looking at
it in a rather too mundane way.
And then to come up the river
in a small boat
with all the sides
of the river completely...
people on each side.
Wonderful.
[horns playing fanfare]
[narrator]
And so this day of days
most memorable comes to an end.
And with it begins a new era.
The new Elizabethan Age.
An age in which
the love and faith and hope
of all the Commonwealth
rests on the slim shoulders
of the beautiful Queen
who has just been crowned.
Long may she reign.
...part of Great Britain.
capital city of a former empire
that embraced a quarter
of the world's population
and land area.
An empire. they said.
upon which the sun never set.
But recently it has set.
Now it is part
of the Commonwealth.
[David Cameron]
Some doubted whether this
organization would succeed.
but she has assiduously
supported it.
Growing it from just seven
members in 1952. to 53 today.
She has played the leading role
in building a unique family
of nations
that spans every continent.
all the main religions.
and nearly a third
of the world's population.
[Lee Kuan Yew]
We are no longer citizens of.
uh. Rome. so to speak.
But we are. many of us.
still alive
who were once citizens of Rome.
I was a British subject.
And. uh. we share
a certain background
which makes us
understand each other.
And she represents
that continuity and change.
Because her role
has changed. too.
[Elizabeth]
In this modern age.
the strength and unity
of the Commonwealth family
does not lie in bonds
forged by formal instruments
nor in common ancestry.
nor in pursuing
the same political line.
It springs from the knowledge
that we all share a lively
concern for individual freedom
and all the machinery
which makes this possible.
There are several expressions
of this unity.
As the Head of the Commonwealth
I am one.
[Michael Manley]
The Commonwealth will survive
without the Queen
because I think it's got
its own rationale.
its own internal dynamic
that justifies it.
On the other hand.
she does serve a function
because there are
large sections.
firstly of the Commonwealth.
who do look positively
towards the symbolism
that is bound up
in the monarchy.
And. in any case.
she is very fine at her job.
I mean. you know.
she really is very good
at going to countries.
going to heads of government.
conferences. talking to people.
and being knowledgeable
about their problems
and knowledgeable
about world affairs.
I have no doubt that she
does that job very well.
[train whistle blowing]
[Elizabeth]
I see the balloons are still
stuck in the tree there.
[man] Yes. we were trying to get
the keeper of the Privy Purse
to take a shotgun out.
[Elizabeth]
But there's horrible bits
of shredded rubber.
- [man] Yes.
- [Elizabeth]
They hit the trees and exploded.
And the garden's absolutely
full of dead balloons.
- [laughing]
- It's very. very disagreeable.
[elegant music playing]
[camera clicks]
[Annie Liebowitz]
Very nice. Very nice.
[Robert Hughes]
Nobody stands in front
of the Mona Lisa.
Everybody stands.
as it were. inside it.
We're enveloped in its
reproductions
from the moment of our birth.
There are millions
of Mona Lisa's
printed on everything
from postcards to tea towels.
from soap to sweatshirts.
It passes the final test
of celebrity.
It is famous for being famous.
It's called the Mona Lisa.
though we don't know who
the sitter actually was.
The Mona Lisa. smiling
enigmatically away there.
kept her secret.
Do you smile to tempt
a lover Mona Lisa?
Or is this your way
To hide a broken heart?
Many dreams have been
brought to your doorstep
They just lie there
And they die there
Are you warm?
Are you real. Mona Lisa?
Or just a cold
and lonely...
[Hughes] ...which the Louvre
will not allow to be filmed
or photographed
under any circumstances.
It is. in fact. a very bad
19th century copy of it.
Does it indeed matter
that I'm not standing
in the Louvre
but in the middle
of a film studio?
I don't think so.
It's all a game with the media.
And in Artisan life.
you either enjoy the fiction
or you don't.
[ "U Don't Know Me"
(Jaxxhouz Klubmix)
by Basement Jaxx playing]
You think you know me
Know what I do
But all you think about is
what it all means to you
I got so much
so much to give
All you gotta do is be ready
ready to live
You think you know
a lot about my kinda woman
But you don't know
nothing 'bout me
Part woman...
and part god.
Have I read your riddle.
Sphinx?
[woman] Nowadays. of course.
they don't even do sketches.
They take photographs.
then take them home
and copy them.
I think that's cheating.
Yes. the portrait
everybody likes best
does look like a photograph.
The Annigoni.
Yes. I like that one. too.
Portraits are supposed to be
frightfully self-revealing.
aren't they?
Show what one's really like.
The secret self.
[man] And that's the very first
Landseer of Queen Victoria.
She apparently
sat in the library for that.
[Elizabeth]
That's an idea. isn't it?
Hadn't thought of that.
- Have the horse indoors?
- Mm.
[both chuckle]
It was one of what I call my
"all walks of life" luncheons.
Today. we had the head of
the CBI. an Olympic swimmer.
primary school headmistress.
a general in the Salvation Army
and Glenda Jackson.
It's a bit sticky.
I've been to one. ma'am.
That was a bit sticky. too.
The trouble is.
whenever I meet anyone.
they're always
on their best behavior.
And when one's
on one's best behavior.
one isn't always at one's best.
[gentle music playing]
[girl] Ow!
[reporter] ...what some call
a royal watcher
and a keen one.
She left her
Sussex home yesterday
to grab a prime position
in Bradford today.
[woman]
This is the most important
bit of the day
because this is where
we need to make a commitment
to where we're going to stand.
Okay. right.
think this through logically.
You've gotta be standing
this side of those barriers.
so logic says she's gonna get
out of the car at one end.
in front of that building.
[announcer]
We have lots of tiny.
small school children.
If it's at all possible.
if you can allow the children
closer to the barriers...
Oh. get out of it!
Just because they...
There already are children
at the front!
Well. they'll have to come
and move us. then. won't they?
[cheering]
[camera clicks]
[Eamonn Andrews]
...you may have detected a--
a special air of excitement.
Well. that's because we've had
our most distinguished guest
ever in our studio here.
We're deeply honored to say.
Your Majesty.
welcome to Crackerjack.
[music playing]
[Dawn French]
For a start. you have to...
you have to tussle
with that whole idea of.
"Will you curtsey.
won't you curtsey?
Will you curtsey?"
And I decided before.
"No. look. curtseying. it's...
No. I'm not going to bow down
for royal. I'm not going to."
And then immediately you do.
[audience laughing]
Immediately you curtsey
far too much. too low.
There was a group of about
four of us around her.
And she says a very small thing.
you know...
"So. are you
enjoying the evening?"
And everybody goes like this.
- [over laughing]
- [audience laughing]
[French] So. the Queen...
I think people are just nervous
or they're eager to please.
don't want to be
beheaded or something.
So. the Queen. I'm sure.
must think that she's
a great comedian or something.
[audience laughing]
I was doing it.
Why was I doing it?
I don't know.
[Robbie Williams]
She actually thought
I was someone else.
I gave her a big smile
and she said.
"Were you the gentleman
on the wires?"
I was like. "No."
I am the Queen.
She said.
"Have you been working hard?"
And I said.
"No. we're having a holiday."
you see. because I couldn't
think what to say.
...because I swam the Channel.
- The Channel?
- I swam the Channel
for Sport Relief.
[David Walliams]
I filled her in why I was here.
which I thought
was a helpful thing to do.
because there was
a long queue of people.
She asked me
how much money was raised.
She asked me if
I was covered in lard.
- It was lard...
- Lard?
But it's not as much fun
as you think.
Immediately you walk in.
and you feel
you're in the presence of power.
It's kinda weird when you
meet someone that famous.
there's almost a kind of
glow around them anyway.
And for her especially
because she's an icon.
So when you actually see her.
you can't quite
believe it's really her.
God save our gracious Queen
Long live our noble Queen
God save the...
[reporter]
First garden party of the year
has been given by
Her Majesty the Queen
in the Palace grounds.
Here come the toppers
and the debutantes.
Attending the first of
the season's afternoon
parties...
[reporter 2]
...Commonwealth and Empire.
as well as from Britain
numbered about 7.000.
Happily the weather was nice
and bright when the Queen
and members of the Royal Family
came out across the...
[Elizabeth] Last week there were
37 casualties. or something.
[man] Yes. 37.
Thirty-seven treatments.
- You may be busy.
- [man] Thirty-seven treatments.
shall we say.
- as opposed to casualties.
- Yes.
[laughter]
But people come
so unsuitably dressed.
that's the other thing.
They'll probably frizzle
by the time they get here.
[man]
And the new shoes. of course.
[Elizabeth]
Well. that's rather hazardous.
- What do you do?
- [woman] I'm a hairdresser.
- Hairdresser?
- Yeah.
[Elizabeth]
So. what are you involved with?
I'm just along here as a friend.
Are you? Yes.
[muted dialogue]
[man]
Did you get to see the Queen?
Oh. yes. As near to her
as your cameraman.
Yes. yes.
- Yeah. It was worth the wait.
- Mmm.
- Well. she's the same age.
born on the same day.
- [woman] Yeah. same date.
I was born the same day
as the Queen. you see.
[newscaster] In Britain.
it chose this moment to rain.
Pretty well the first rain
in London for a month.
Shelter at once
became the most important thing.
[man] Thousands and thousands
of umbrellas
and the crowd
got thicker and thicker.
And then there's this big scrum
outside the tea tent.
And out from
behind the silver urns.
and the gladioli.
came cups of tea.
beautifully presented.
Beautifully presented sandwiches
which were not cut in triangles.
they were cut straight across.
So. for anyone
who wants to know.
that's the way to cut sandwiches
to be really fashionable.
And then we had one.
Vicky had a wobbly
when Jim said.
"Shall... would you like
another cup of tea?"
So I said. "Yes".
So he went back and came
back with two cups of tea.
"Got one for her?"
And she went charging through.
you know.
And I had to rush after her
and say to the lady.
"Could she have
a cup of tea. please?"
Would you like a cup of tea.
Your Majesty?
No. not at the moment.
I've just-just had lunch.
- [Jim] And out she came.
- [Jim's wife]
Well. about "out she came."
I mean. Jim was standing there
and suddenly...
- Well. you could see
they all clapped...
- ...stopped.
- ...and cheered and things.
- And you peered. and he said.
"There she is. Orange dot.
The top of the stairs."
[ "Our House"
by Madness playing]
In the middle of our
Our house it has a crowd
There's always
something happening
And it's usually quite loud
Our mum
she's so house-proud
Nothing ever slows her down
and a mess is not allowed
Our house
In the middle of our street
In the middle of our
Our house
In the middle of our street
our house
Something tells you
that you've got to move
away from it
Father gets up
late for work
Mother has to
iron his shirt
Then she sends
the kids to school
Sees them off
with a small kiss
She's the one they're
going to miss in lots of ways
Our house
In the middle of our street
in the middle of our
I remember way back then
when everything was true
and when
We would have such
a very good time
Such a fine time
Such a happy time
And I remember how we'd play
simply waste the day away
Then we'd say nothing
would come between us
Two dreamers
[newscaster]
Windsor Castle is getting ready
for its big event of the year.
A three day state visit
by a former shipyard
electrician from Gdansk.
now the President of Poland.
Lech Walesa.
But he's amazed by the size
of everything.
that's what amuses me.
- What. the rooms?
- Yes.
His only two English words
are quite interesting words.
And he-- and he goes round
looking. you know.
at everything. so sweet.
"Good heavens"
he could manage. could he?
Well. it's better than that.
but...
Good evening.
[piano music playing]
[man] Draw swords!
At last.
[theme music playing]
[narrator]
His Majesty was accompanied by
Princess Elizabeth
and the Duke of Gloucester
when he rode
from Buckingham Palace
to the Horse Guards Parade
for the birthday ceremony
of Trooping the Colour.
The heiress presumptive...
[narrator 2]
A hand. cool and steady.
like a Grenadier on parade.
is needed for the last
finishing touches of paint.
Yes. it's the ceremony
of Trooping the Colour
on the King's birthday
with Princess Elizabeth...
[dramatic music playing]
[crown clamoring]
[gunshot]
[gunshots]
[crowd screaming]
[man]
He just stepped backwards.
took about a half step backwards
and raised it up
in his right hand
and then. you know. held it.
police marksman style
and fired about
four or five shots.
It was absolutely incredible.
It bought it home to us
how terribly vulnerable she is.
If that had been a real gun.
there's no doubt that she
would have been dead
and that probably a lot of
the crowd would have been.
as well.
[ "Cheek to Cheek"
by Fred Astaire playing]
Heaven
They're off!
I'm in heaven
On the wrong leg.
Look. it's on the wrong leg.
No wonder it can't go
round the corner.
That I can hardly speak
And I seem to find
The happiness I seek
When we're out together
Dancing cheek to cheek
Heaven
I'm in heaven
And the cares
that hung around me
Through the week
Seem to vanish
like a gambler's lucky streak
When we're out together
Dancing cheek to cheek
[Elizabeth] Do you know
that I haven't watched
from a pair of binoculars
for ages?
Look at it.
I'm pouring with tears.
- Oh. dear.
- I always watch on television.
- It's the emotion. perhaps.
- No. no. I watch on television.
No. Mummy. if you look into
the wind like that.
It's like looking for deer.
Dancing cheek to cheek
Oh. I'd love
to go out fishing
In a river or a creek
But I don't enjoy it
half as much
That's my... my horse.
I've got money on the sweep.
Many congratulations.
Thank you very much.
What do I get?
Well... [chuckles]
you get 16. ma'am.
- Sixteen pounds?
- Sixteen pounds.
[chuckles]
[girl] Gonna celebrate her...
- twenty-five years.
- [man] Yes.
And she's gonna celebrate
her Silver Jubilee.
[man]
How will she celebrate that.
do you think?
Have tea.
[Monty Modlyn]
June the 6th. 1977.
and the many months of worrying
and planning
are put to the test
in Sheila's street.
And they kicked off
with one of the best line-ups
of fancy dress
I've ever come across.
[crying]
[Modlyn]
Judges. what are we looking for?
Yeah. but what
are we looking for?
[man] Well. basically.
the ones that have been
made of paper. you know.
there's lots of work gone
into...
[Modlyn] What are you
looking for. my dear?
[woman] Originality. I suppose.
and also the work
that's gone into them
and. and general effect
of the whole.
the whole outfit.
[Modlyn] Pretty good. really.
Nice to see you. dear.
Well. we must have
the oldest in the street.
mustn't we?
- Am I the oldest?
- Well. that's what--
[woman]
You know you're the oldest.
- How old are you. darling?
I shouldn't--
- Nearly 90.
We shouldn't really ask
a lady her age. should we?
[woman]
Oh. I don't mind.
[Modlyn] You are sweet.
[woman]
Does she have her flowers?
Oh. you've had your flowers.
have you?
[Modlyn] Darling. I don't--
Can you hear me. love?
Have you got a message
for the Queen
you'd like to give as the oldest
person in the street?
I hope she'll be always healthy.
That is the main thing.
your health.
God bless her.
Happy and glorious
Long to reign over us
God save the Queen
[cheering]
[piano music playing]
[man] Hey. hey!
No-- the Queen. the Queen.
Turn the Queen the other way.
you bloody Communists.
Get her up that.
The right way up. the Queen!
[overlapping chatter]
[man] Behave yourself.
Don't be saying things
like that.
[boy] She ain't done
a day's work in her whole life.
[indistinct chatter]
[muted dialogue]
[man] Why do we have a Queen.
do you think?
[children] Um...
[man] Anyone know. please?
- [girl] I know.
- [man] You know.
So she can
look after our country.
[man] Yeah.
And then. when we need help.
she can give us help.
[young man]
I've had one interview.
160 turned up.
And they only want 14.
Fourteen vacancies.
There wasn't much
chance with that.
And I got the letter yesterday
to say that I've not
been accepted.
[crowd cheering]
[newscaster]
Today. the Royal Family
spend a lot of time
encouraging industry.
Queen's award. royal visits.
The balance has shifted from
armies to defend the Empire.
to exports to defend the pound.
[newscaster 2]
...to the works of the
English Steel Corporation.
Her Majesty and the Duke
watched with keenest interest
many of the operations
in this large steel-making
and engineering plant.
at which some 10.000 people
are employed.
I can't pretend to be
a great celebrity
But still I'm quite important
in me way
The job I have to do
may not sound much to you
But all the same
I'm very proud to say
I'm the girl
that makes the thing
That drills the hole
that holds the ring
That drives the rod
that turns the knob
That works
the thingummy bob
I'm the girl
that makes the thing
That holds the oil
that oils the ring
That takes the shank
that moves the crank
That works
the thingummy bob
It's a ticklish sort of job
Making a thing
for a thingummy bob
Especially when you
don't know what it's for
But it's the girl
that makes the thing
That drills the hole
that holds the ring
That makes
the thingummy bob
That makes the engines roar
And it's the girl
that makes the thing
[upbeat music playing]
[man] Hello.
I'd like to take some time
to give each of us an individual
and collective guidance
to each of our roles
and collective roles
on Friday of this week.
on the 13th
when we receive Her Majesty
the Queen and the Chairman
and each of their parties.
[narrator]
At 10:25. Her Majesty the Queen
and Chairman Lee
will simultaneously switch on
both the microwave
and the monitor
production lines.
They will then walk down
the first production line
where they may pause
to talk to some employees.
At an appropriate time.
everyone will be
moved to a position that lines
the official route
of the royal party.
Union and Korean flags
will be distributed.
Thank you. Mr. Chairman Lee
and Mr. Vice-Chairman Kim
for your welcome to Samsung.
Samsung have been
operating in Teeside
for some time.
And the success of this venture
is based firmly on a partnership
between your company
and the people of this area.
[narrator]   If you are unsure
about any of the details
that you've just seen
for your guidance
this program
will be repeated every day
until Her Majesty's
and Chairman Lee's visit.
[birds squawking]
[Peter Sissons] Britain will
no longer have a royal yacht.
When   Britannia   completes
her final journey
the government will end hundreds
of years of maritime history
by confirming that Britannia
will be the last
and that there's no money
to keep her in service.
[bell dinging]
[priest]
We are gathered together
to commemorate the paying off
of the Royal Yacht   Britannia.
After more than 43 years
of distinguished service
to Her Majesty the Queen.
[newscaster]
At John Brown's Yard
on Tyneside.
the 4.000-ton royal yacht
is ready for launching
by Her Majesty.
For many months.
there has been speculation
about the name of the new yacht.
And there's an air of expectancy
as Her Majesty steps forward
to perform
the actual launching ceremony.
- I name this ship   Britannia.
- [crowd cheering]
I wish success to her
and to all who sail in her.
[newscaster] Soon the   Britannia
will become a home
for the Queen. the Duke
and their children.
[dramatic music playing]
[explosion]
[Elizabeth]
We've been able to use   Britannia
as our traveling home.
so to speak.
and have been able to go
to many more places
than would ever have been
possible without her.
I mean.
crossing the Pacific in a ship.
which one never does nowadays.
was an experience in itself.
Three weeks at sea.
I stuck in all pictures
and photographs
in my photograph album.
which I'd never have done
otherwise.
[man] One. two. three.
Thank you. ma'am.
[explosions]
[ "Look at that Girl"
by Guy Mitchell playing]
Look at the girl
she's like a dream come true
Ah. look at that girl
can blue eyes be so blue?
Look at the way she walks
Listen when she talks
With each word
my heart just skips
Oh. if I could
kiss those lips
Look at that girl
she's like a dream come true
I don't believe it
they're making it up
Look at that girl
can blue eyes be so blue?
But if I'm dreaming
please don't wake me up
[Paul McCartney]
We were like. what. 14.
Very formative teenage years.
And the Queen was sort of 24.
or something.
So. to us. she was a babe.
So we were... [grunts]
There was a certain
lustfulness in us teenagers.
That's what we used to say
in Liverpool.
"God. look at the heave on her".
And. uh. so we grew up
loving the Queen.
So. how do you go about
changing actresses appearances
as to wardrobe?
[woman]
The first thing I do is to get
acquainted with the actress.
I actually met Miss Hepburn
and made this wardrobe test.
And as you'll see.
it's pretty successful.
[ "La Vie En Rose"
by Emily Watts playing]
[woman]
This is a transformation
as the princess.
You see. we don't do any tricks
or give her a crown.
But we give her a regal dress.
A simple dress of real lace.
In other words.
the type of dress
that a real princess would wear.
This is even
more of a regal costume.
This is one of
the princess's ball gowns
for the opening of the film.
We had two costumes
from which to choose
and we took this one
with silver brocade
because it was a little more
photographic. a little gayer.
Now. you notice
what she's going to do now.
She is turning around
in the picture
because the producer.
William Wyler. said.
"It's too long.
she can't possibly dance".
Now Audrey.
who is an accomplished dancer.
said. "Just watch me".
And that is why...
[voice fades]
[Elizabeth]
I am so happy that on this.
my third visit.
my future husband is by my side.
My husband and I...
My husband and me...
Me and my husband...
Philip and me...
My husband and I...
Prince Philip and I...
I think everybody
really will concede
that on this of all days.
I should begin my speech
with the words
"My husband and I."
[audience cheering]
[ "Leaning On A Lamp Post"
by George Formby playing]
I'm leaning on a lamp
I know I look
just like a tramp
Or you may think
I'm hanging round
to steal a car
But. no. I'm not a crook
And if you think
that's what I look
I'll tell you why I'm here
and what my motives are
I'm leaning on a lamp post
at the corner of the street
In case a certain
little lady comes by
Oh me. oh my
I hope the little lady
comes by
I don't know
if she'll get away
She doesn't always get away
But anyhow
I know that she'll try
Oh me. oh my
I hope
the little lady comes by
There's no other girl
I could wait for
But this one
I'd break any date for
I won't have to ask
what she's late for
She wouldn't leave me flat
she's not a girl like that
Oh. she's absolutely
beautiful
And marvelous
and wonderful
And anyone
can understand why
I'm leaning on a lamp post
at the corner of the street
In case a certain
little lady passes by
[Elizabeth] But is it--
is it still as heavy?
Yes. it is.
Yes. it weighs a ton.
[chuckles]
And it is impossible to tell
which is front and back.
I suppose.
Very unwieldy.
Fortunately. my father and I
have about the same
sort of shaped head.
And you can't look down
to read the speech.
you have to take the speech up.
Because if you did.
your neck would break.
or it would fall off.
So there are some
disadvantages to crowns.
but otherwise
they're quite important things.
[woman] That's the last lesson.
Next Tuesday. we'll all watch
the real thing on television.
I shan't. Miss Stokes.
My parents
are taking me to London.
I'll really see the real thing.
You're a very lucky girl.
Never mind.
I expect we'll all get
a much better view in the end.
[bells ringing]
[dramatic music playing]
[chorus singing indistinct]
[crowd chanting]
God save the Queen.
I
I will be king
And you
You will be Queen
And nothing
Will drive them away
We can beat them
Just for one day
We can be heroes
And you
You can be mean
Though nothing
Will keep us together
We could steal time
Just for one day
We can be heroes
Forever and ever
[crowd cheering]
[man on PA indistinct]
[crowd chanting]
We want the Queen.
[cheering]
[Elizabeth]
As this day draws to its close.
I know that my
abiding memory of it will be
not only the solemnity
and beauty of the ceremony.
but the inspiration
of your loyalty and affection.
[ "Royal Highness"
by Tom Grennan playing]
You'll be my royal highness
Queen bee
with a little sting to ya
You'll be my royal highness
My lady
with a little freak to ya
You'll be my
you'll be my royal highness
You'll be my. you'll be my
Royal highness
royal highness
It will come along
without you knowing
It's like finding
a needle in a haystack
It will come along
without you knowing
It's like finding
Royal highness
royal highness
[Harold Wilson] It is of
great value to a Prime Minister
every Tuesday evening.
to go and talk to someone
with experience.
but who is above
the political battle.
[man] The Prime Minister.
Your Majesty.
[David Cameron] So it's a very
frank conversation
about everything going on
in the world that week.
I've been listening to
the fact that you've been
visiting factories
and things.
Yes. that's right.
The Deputy Prime Minster and I
went to a tractor factory
in Basildon.
[Cameron] As you explain
a particular problem
that the government has.
sometimes you find it is all
becoming clearer
as you explain it to this one
incredibly experienced person.
Because you're always
very conscious
that she's been listening to
this stuff for 60 years.
[man]
Then I would tell her things.
Things that
I've never told anyone.
Things that are
locked deep in here.
[coughs]
And then as I talk to her
I would want her to hold out
a soft white hand and say:
"Poor thing.
You poor. poor thing."
[Tony Blair]
There are only two people
in the world. frankly.
to whom a Prime Minister
can say what he likes about
his Cabinet colleagues.
[crowd laughing]
[Blair] One's the wife
and the other's the Queen.
[Elizabeth] But I have had
quite a lot of Prime Ministers.
starting with Winston.
And some stayed longer
than others.
They unburden themselves.
or they tell me what's going on.
or if they've got any problems.
And sometimes one can
help in that way. too.
Are you supposed to be looking
as if you're enjoying yourself?
- Yes.
- [all chuckle]
You helped our nation celebrate
its bicentennial in 17...
in 1976.
[scattered laughter]
Wrong year.
She gave me a look that only
a mother could give a child.
Ow. that's my foot
you're standing on.
- Oh! Now. shall we go that way?
- [girl] Yes.
- We want to go in the sun.
- That way.
- Is that more fun?
- [woman] Come on. Smokey.
- [William] Come on.
[newscaster] In 1949.
Elizabeth proudly presented
Prince Charlie to the world.
He was the first baby
born to a British heir...
[crowd cheering]
[Charles] Your Majesty.
Mummy.
- [interviewer]
How do you feel about her?
- [woman] Um...
she's like...
I don't know.
the mother. say of...
[interviewer] Was there a bit of
a tear to the eye as she sailed?
- [woman]
Yeah. Yeah. definitely.
- [interviewer] Really?
[woman] Yeah...
[interviewer]
What is that special thing
that gives British people
in particular?
[man]
I think it's the family thing.
I think you belong to a family.
[interviewer] In a sense.
does she feel like
your mother or grandmother?
Yes. I think that's--
that is the feeling I feel...
[melancholy music playing]
[newscaster]
In the male-dominated world
of the mud men.
the idea of an all-powerful
woman is impossible to grasp.
So they know their sovereign
as Mrs. Quinn.
with much incomprehension
or wrang.
[music continues]
Elizabeth
she's the girl next door
But she's a little bit
Yeah. to me
she's a little bit more
When I'm with her
then I feel like a king
Yes. I feel like a king
To be in her grace
I would do anything
I would go down on my knees
down on my knees
Down on my knees
down on my
Oh. Queen Elizabeth
You're the one
that I wanna be with
My Queen Elizabeth
Give it up. give it up
Give it up
just a little bit
Oh. Queen Elizabeth
You're the one
that I wanna be with
that I wanna be with now
You're the one
Elizabeth
I am here
at your beck and call
And in a little bit
I'll have you
climbing the castle walls
All the king's horses
and all the king's men
Can't keep me away
keep me away
I'll be your knight
any time of the day
Any time of the day
I will go down on my knees
down on my knees
Down on my knees
down on my
Oh. Queen Elizabeth
You're the one
that I wanna be with now
- [song ends]
- [piano music playing]
Don't let's be
beastly to the Germans
When our victory
is ultimately won
It was just those nasty Nazis
who persuaded them to fight
[newscaster] ...the forthcoming
visit of the King and Queen.
to Canada and the United States
stands out as one of the few
peaceful signals on the horizon.
Just as among the changing
institutions of this world.
British monarchy endures.
The King and Queen are
leaving England on May the 6th
for their tour in the New World.
And who should be more
interested in where
their Majesties are going
than the small daughters
whom they leave behind?
[men chattering indistinct]
Well. you've all
read your papers.
and you know that Ribbentrop
signed a non-aggression pact
with Stalin yesterday.
As I see it.
that means war next week.
[audio fades]
...to get this ship
ready to sail.
None of us'll turn in.
or take our clothes off.
or sling our hammocks
for the next
three days and nights
till the job's finished.
Then we'll
send Hitler a telegram saying.
"The Torrin's ready.
you can start your war".
[wind whipping]
[narrator indistinct]
Campaigns do not
wait on weather.
Ships must be kept in line
by the escort vessel.
less they drop behind
and crash into isolation.
[newscaster]
But while at Denham Studios.
the King and Queen.
accompanied by the Princesses.
visited the set of the
Noel Coward palladium drama
In Which We Serve.
Get down. everybody!
[newscaster] The royal party
met actors and crew
before staying to watch
some of the filming.
[soldier in movie]
Look at the Huns. sir.
They're jumping overboard
in full marching order.
Oh. look at that.
Come in. the water's lovely.
[man] Open fire!
[narrator]
Convoys do not retreat
when the enemy attacks
or withdraw to new positions.
The convoys sail on.
having no choice
and wishing no others.
[newscaster] The whole country
is growing food
in this fourth year of war.
from the small backyard
to the big estate.
At Sandringham.
the King's country estate.
the entire park
has been ploughed up.
including
the private golf course.
which is now producing
oats and rye.
The King. with his subjects.
has enormously stepped up..
These are some of the girls who
are doing their bit for victory.
They're taking the place
of the men who have joined
the fighting services.
and they're doing a great job.
[interviewer]
And what would you like to do?
- I'd like to join the ATS.
- Why the ATS?
[woman] Well. plenty of variety.
and I shall be doing my bit
to help my country.
[interviewer]
And what would you like to do?
Well. I'd like to help
to build Spitfires.
My boy is in the RAF.
and I feel I'm helping him.
[Air Marshal Harris]
...if you individually succeed.
you will have delivered
the most devastating blow
against the very vitals
of the enemy.
Let him have it.
right on the chin.
[newscaster]
That was how Air Marshal Harris.
Commander-in-Chief
Bomber Command
gave his instructions
for the largest air raid
the world has ever known.
[reporter]
The target is Dresden.
[crowd clamoring]
[Michael Buerk]
The Queen has been jeered
by demonstrators in Dresden
on the first day of her
state visit to Germany.
She was there
for a service of reconciliation
to commemorate the wartime
bombing raid on the city
which killed as many
as 40.000 people.
There was some applause
among the catcalls.
but the banners refer to
the statue recently erected
in London to Bomber Harris.
blamed here for all
that happened to the city.
[interviewer]
What is the actual protocol
when you decide to get married.
ma'am?
Whose permission
do you have to ask?
[Anne] He asked my father.
He was very kind to me.
actually.
I was petrified beforehand.
[interviewer] Did he ask you
what your prospects are?
What sort of prospects?
[chuckles]
[Frank Bough]
...is Princess Anne's gift
to her husband.
Captain Mark Phillips.
A set of dress studs.
cufflinks and buttons.
Well. somewhere else
I spotted a tool-kit
for Captain Mark Phillips.
I don't know how much
of a handyman he is.
Twelve dozen coat hangers.
Now there is a very imaginative
and a very clever gift
- for a couple
who've just got married.
- [crowd clamoring]
[Prince Charles]
Yes. what a difficult question.
[Charles
and Princess Diana laugh]
[Charles] What do you think
we've got in common?
[Diana] Sense of humor?
Um. every outdoor activity.
except I don't ride.
- Um...
- Soon remedy that.
Lots of things. really.
[interviewer]
And. I suppose. in love.
[Diana] Of course.
- Whatever "in love" means.
- Yes.
[overlapping chatter]
[interviewer] Well. obviously
means two very happy people.
[overlapping chatter]
[crowd cheering]
[reporter]
The Prince had been up
since the early hours yesterday.
organizing and taking part
in a vastly complicated event
involving four members
of the Royal Family.
and some 50 international stars.
- [Prince Edward]
Have you been watching it?
- [press] Yes.
Yeah. What did you think of it?
[crowd laughing]
- Thanks.
- [woman]
I thought it was brilliant.
- [Edward] Great!
- [reporter]
Then the royal walkout.
He's reported to have said.
as he left Alton Towers.
"One of these days
you lot are going to
have to learn some manners".
[Peter Sissons]
Centuries old Windsor Castle.
one of the Queen's residences
has been consumed by fire
for much of the day.
A hundred and fifty-five--
[John Major] They've announced
from Buckingham Palace.
that with regret.
the Prince and Princess of Wales
have decided to separate.
Their Royal Highnesses
have no plans to divorce...
[newscaster] ...Duchess of York
have begun discussions
about a formal separation.
A statement issued by the Queen
said talks were not yet complete
and nothing more
would be said.
[Sissons] Buckingham Palace
announced today
that the Princess Royal
and her husband.
Captain Mark Phillips.
are to separate
after nearly
16 years of marriage.
The statement said the couple
had decided to part...
[voice fades]
[Prince Andrew]
...with the sweating.
um. because. uh.
I-I have a peculiar
medical condition.
which is that I don't sweat.
um. or I didn't sweat
at the time.
And that was. uh--
Yes. I didn't sweat at the time
because I...
[Russell Howard] Can't sweat.
I bet the Queen was like.
"What the fuck is he doing?!"
[audience laughing]
[Howard as Elizabeth]
Philip. are you getting this!
Our son's an absolute moron!
[as Philip] I know.
He makes Charles
look like Stephen Fry.
[newscaster]
...that Oprah Winfrey conducted
with Prince Harry
and Meghan Markle.
Buckingham Palace issue
is a symbiotic relationship
between the Palace
and the British Press.
So then Harry said.
"There is this invisible
contract behind closed doors
behind the institution
and UK tabloids."
No institution. city.
monarchy. whatever.
should expect to be free
from the scrutiny of those
who give it their loyalty
and support.
not to mention those who don't.
And that scrutiny.
by one part of another.
can be just as effective
if it is made
with a touch of gentleness.
good humor and understanding.
[newscaster] Increasingly today.
much of the anger
which was at first
directed at the paparazzi
has been focused on
the royals themselves.
For the past five days.
most of the Royal Family.
including the Queen.
have been 521 miles away
at Balmoral
leaving the Palace empty.
with no flag flying.
I feel like everyone else
in this country today.
utterly devastated.
She was a wonderful.
warm human being.
[crowd clamoring]
Very disgraceful
I find their behavior.
Disgusting that they have not
appeared or said a word.
I think they must be very.
very cold-hearted
not to have a flag up.
I think it's a disgrace
on the whole Royal Family.
- I can't understand the Queen
doing it. really.
- [woman] No.
[Jennie Bond] Looks as though
the Queen is about to--
she is. she's getting
out of the car. Wes.
and is going to talk to people.
[Wesley Kerr]
It's extremely unusual.
This is almost unprecedented.
I think perhaps the last time...
[voice fades]
What I say to you now.
as your Queen
and as a grandmother.
I say from my heart.
First. I want to pay tribute
to Diana myself.
She was an exceptional
and gifted human being.
[Elizabeth chuckles]
I don't think he believes me.
Prince Andrew.
[Elizabeth] No.
There's another one there
with a plaque.
[David Attenborough]
Prince Andrew. 1969.
- That one?
- [Attenborough]
I think so. yes.
- You-you said...
- [indistinct]
You said that was Andrew.
- Can't both be.
- [Attenborough]
No. that's Andrew.
Oh dear. oh dear.
Edward.
[chuckles]
- That's Edward.
- Yeah.
There will be all kinds of
different trees growing here
- in another 50 years maybe.
- Might easily be. yes.
- I won't be here. though.
- [chuckles]
I was going to say. a sundial
neatly planted in the shade.
- Isn't it good. yes.
- [chuckles]
Had we thought of that?
That it was
planted in the shade?
It wasn't in the shade
originally. I'm sure.
- But. um...
- [chuckling]
Maybe we could move it.
Well. it depends whether you
want to know the time or not.
[Walliams]
...through your family records.
- [Harry Enfield as Elizabeth]
Yes.
- And I've found an entry here
for your
great-great-grandmother.
[Enfield] And what was her name?
Queen Victoria.
And what did she do?
She was the Queen.
You're joking.
And their grandson
was your grandfather.
King George V.
And he had two sons.
the younger of whom was
King George VI.
[Enfield] Shove off.
From   The King's Speech?
- [Walliams]
That's correct. your father.
- My father's Colin Firth?
[Walliams] No. Colin Firth
played your father in the film.
[Enfield] So one isn't related
to Colin Firth?
- [Walliams] No.
- Oh. that's a shame.
[newscaster]
Three Kings occupied the British
throne in a single year.
King George departs.
beloved after 25 years of rule.
And walking behind his coffin.
in the sad procession.
is the new King.
who is the beloved
Prince of Wales.
- God save the King.
- [fanfare plays]
[newscaster] And even while
the proclamation still rings.
King Edward stands beside
Mr. and Mrs. Simpson
in the windows of his apartments
at St. James's Palace.
Soon he is to tell
the world of the woman I love
and for her renounce the throne.
Then comes the year's third King
with his Scottish wife
and their two children.
King George VI
and Queen Elizabeth.
And the little
Princess Elizabeth.
who may one day be Queen.
[Elizabeth] But. you see.
nobody writes anymore.
I keep a diary.
but it's not really a diary
like Queen Victoria's. you know.
or as detailed as that.
It's quite small.
[man] But you write it
in your own hand?
- Oh. yes.
- Yes. I think
that's terribly important.
I can't write any other way.
Definitive edition of the plays
of JM Barrie.
Peter Pan.
- He was the most wonderful
storyteller.
- [man] Yeah.
[Elizabeth]
As children we used to go to tea
and he'd tell the most
wonderful stories.
- [man] Did he?
- [Elizabeth] Yes.
He just happened
to be the sort of person
that could tell
children's stories.
It didn't matter if you were
just sitting at the tea table.
And. of course. boringly.
one was a small child.
one didn't realize...
- [man] Yeah. quite.
- [Elizabeth]
...what a good storyteller
one was listening to.
If only one had known.
[Wendy] Oh. Mother. we are back.
- [Mr. Darling] Back?
- [Wendy]
All except the Lost Boys.
They weren't quite ready.
- Lost B... ready?
- To grow up.
That's why they went
back to Neverland.
Neverland?
- Yes. but I am.
- Am?
Uh. ready to grow up.
[ "Crown" by Stormzy playing]
Searchin' every corner
of my mind
Lookin' for the answers
I can't find
I have my reasons
and life has its lessons
I tried to be grateful
and count all my blessings
But heavy is the head
that wears the crown
Amen. in Jesus' name
yes. I declare it
Any little seed I receive
I have to share it
Bruddas wanna break me down
I can't bare it
But heavy is the head
with the crown
I still wear it
You can't hold me down
I still cope
Rain falling down
at the BRITs
I'm still soaked
Tried to put a hole
in our shit
we'll build boats
Two birds with one stone
I'll kill both
Pray I never lose and pray
I never hit the shelf
Promise if I do that you'll
be checkin' on my health
If it's for my people
I'll do anything to help
If I do it out of love
it's not to benefit myself
[newscaster] ...the Queen Mother
and Princess Margaret
enter their carriage.
and there begins the sad
last journey of King George VI.
Searchin' every corner
of my mind
Search every corner
look for the answers
Lookin' for the answers
I can't find
No. I can't find 'em
no silver lining
I have my reasons
and life has its lessons
I tried to be grateful
and count all my blessings
But heavy is the head
that wears the crown
[bell tolling]
[flute playing]
[Elizabeth] In a way.
I didn't have an apprenticeship.
my father died much too young.
and so. it was all
a very sudden kind of taking on.
and making the best job you can.
It's a question
of maturing into something
that one's got used to doing.
And accepting the fact that here
you are and it's your fate.
God save the Queen.
- Hip hip...
- [all] Hooray.
- [man] Hip hip...
[Elizabeth] The crown is an idea
more than a person.
Heavy is the head
that wears the crown
[young Elizabeth]
My sister is by my side
and we are both going to say
goodnight to you.
Come on. Margaret.
[young Margaret]
Goodnight. children.
[young Elizabeth]
Goodnight and good luck
to you all.
[melancholy music playing]
[McCartney] Two.
[guitar strumming]
"Her Majesty" take one.
Her majesty's--
[clears throat]
Her Majesty's
a pretty nice girl
But she doesn't have
a lot to say
Her Majesty's
a pretty nice girl
But she changes
from day to day
I wanna tell her
that I love her a lot
But I gotta get
a bellyful of wine
Her Majesty's
a pretty nice girl
Someday I'm gonna
make her mine. oh yeah
make her mine
- [man] Do you wanna hear it?
- [McCartney] Yeah.
[soft piano music playing]
[rhythmic clanging
to "God Save the Queen"
Long live our
God save our Queen
[jazzy piano]
[vibrating to
"God Save the Queen"
[band playing]